Enable IPO / LTO and -O3 (#6011)
diffblue/cbmc: CMakeLists.txt

option(WITH_MEMORY_ANALYZER
  "build the memory analyzer" ${WITH_MEMORY_ANALYZER_DEFAULT})

if((CMAKE_MAJOR_VERSION EQUAL 3 AND CMAKE_MINOR_VERSION GREATER_EQUAL 9)
   AND (CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE STREQUAL "Release"))
  cmake_policy(SET CMP0069 NEW)
  include(CheckIPOSupported)
  check_ipo_supported(RESULT ipo_supported OUTPUT error)
endif()

if(ipo_supported)
  message(STATUS "IPO / LTO enabled")
  set_property(GLOBAL PROPERTY INTERPROCEDURAL_OPTIMIZATION True)

>   add_definitions(-DLTO)

Reviewer: CMake noob here: could we use `set(CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS_RELEASE "${CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS_RELEASE} -DLTO")` instead?

Author: Yes, but this is easier. It only adds it to the Release flags anyway, because only there ipo_supported will be true.

Reviewer: Understood, but then I wasn't able to find a way to surface this to the CaDiCaL build configuration. You might know how to make this work?

  if ((CMAKE_SYSTEM_PROCESSOR STREQUAL "x86_64")
       OR (CMAKE_SYSTEM_PROCESSOR STREQUAL "i386")
       OR (CMAKE_SYSTEM_PROCESSOR STREQUAL "i586")
       OR (CMAKE_SYSTEM_PROCESSOR STREQUAL "i686")
       OR (CMAKE_SYSTEM_PROCESSOR STREQUAL "amd64") # freebsd
       OR (CMAKE_SYSTEM_PROCESSOR STREQUAL "AMD64") # windows
       OR (CMAKE_SYSTEM_PROCESSOR STREQUAL "x86"))
     set(PROCESSOR_FAMILY "Intel")

>      if(CMAKE_COMPILER_IS_GNUCC
>          OR (CMAKE_C_COMPILER_ID STREQUAL AppleClang)
>          OR (CMAKE_C_COMPILER_ID STREQUAL Clang)
>          OR (CMAKE_C_COMPILER_ID STREQUAL Intel))
>        add_definitions(-march=native)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     if(CMAKE_COMPILER_IS_GNUCC
         OR (CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ID STREQUAL AppleClang)
         OR (CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ID STREQUAL Clang)
         OR (CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ID STREQUAL Intel))
       set(CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS_RELEASE "${CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS_RELEASE} -march=native")
```

Author: CXX compiler! good catch

Reviewer 2: I think you might actually need _both_ the C and CXX variants?

>        add_definitions(-march=native)

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit nervous of the `-march=native` - if I'm reading the CMake correctly (a big if :-) ) then this is enabled by default on release builds, but thats quite likely to cause problems building CBMC release distributions (or at least, be a trap waiting to cause problems). `native` means "use any instructions available on the build machine" I believe - but we've got no real guarantee that our build machines are not higher spec/newer CPUs/whatever than any of the downstream users of our binary packages, meaning they run the risk of getting illegal instruction crashes/traps from our released binaries. While we _could_ override default options for our binary packaging, I'd feel much more comfortable if we didn't have to...

Author: True. Packagers need to get rid of that somehow. Maybe only add it to CFLAGS and CXXFLAGS via env. The idea was to find sloppy visibility and alignment, and test it in develop. Also have locally fast binaries
